# geotag

**Description**

An application that allows users to geotag events and classified ads overlaid onto a map of the surrounding location. By default the application uses the current location however the user can do this by dropping a tag onto a particular location on the map.This would allow them to see the different events and advertisements around the tag.The users can create events in our application, we will be storing this information onto our database. We would use the past events information, to create a heat map which shows the most popular locations for events. Additionally, we will be creating a feature to recommend events to the user and we will allow users to pay for the cover fees or products directly through the application.The users will be able to locate the events that their friends are attending. They can also filter events based on time periods, group sizes and specific event categories. 

**Usefulness**

The following applications have features which are similar to ours:
* Meet up
* Craigslist
* Facebook
* Venmo /Paypal

What sets our project apart from the applications listed above is that our application will combine the best features of everything listed above. Also it will add a unique and novel map overlay, which will make finding events and classifieds easier than ever before. Additionally, the event suggestion, friend finder and heat map provides functionality that nothing else does.
The popularity of specific of location is a valuable data, which many companies would like to have access. 

**Realness**

The user data, their name, id and friend list will be derived from facebook. We will also be using the facebook to log into the application. The user will be able to input their own personal information. The past hosted events and user ratings will be taken from the events created in the application and the users who attended them. 
For the events and classified, ids will be autogenerated within the application, to provide a unique number. The description, start times, end times, names, locations, max group sizes and fees will be inputted by the user. 
The map will be taken from the google maps api, we will only be using this to generate the map. We store our own coordinates for the events, and we will be developing an algorithm to fence off specific locations in order to specify where they are bound within the map. 
We will determine the popularity of the location based on some algorithm which will use the past events data as well as friends that would have visited at those locations in the past. 

**Basic Functions**
* Create Events
* Update Personal Description
* Filter Events on Map
* Attend Event
* Closing off events past max group size
* Review event host
* Pay for event or product fee

**Advanced Functions**
* Fencing off specific locations: 
  * Determining general terms that people use "the quad" , "south field" that are not necessarily bounded by specific coordinates.
  * This will make it easier to locate the events and determine the popularity of specific locations
* Generating a heat map for location popularity
  * This is a data visualisation method, which will nicely determine where other users tend to host events in certain cities or campuses
  * It would be great for universities or property owners to advertise, for example, the engineering quad may be UIUC's most popular event location
* Suggesting events for users
  * This will be a useful as it will make selecting events for users significantly easier
